well let's bring in Sal Takahashi he's a
professor of Human Rights and peace
studies at Osaka joken University he's
also a former deputy head at the office
of the UN High Commissioner for human
rights in occupied Palestine he joins us
today from Baku Professor these
initiatives by Western countries the air
drops a new port a maritime Corridor
they essentially bypass the bottlenecks
and the constraints on the land borders
which are happening because Israel says
they need to check all of the aid going
into the strip these new aid routs
though presumably also require approval
or cooperation of Israel so is Israel
now essentially saying those checks
aren't necessary why not then just let
the trucks
in I mean look this is not predominantly
a humanitarian issue uh this is not some
kind of you know natural disaster
tsunami and or an earthquake or anything
like that this is a like you say a
man-made disaster it is a genocide the
Israelis are inflicting genocide on the
Palestinians now if the Americans or the
EU uh gave a hoot about Palestinian
lives what they should be doing is not
pretending like they are Hollywood
action heroes and you know airlifting
supplies into Berlin what they should be
doing is stopping the endless flow of
weapons and stopping the political
support for isra genocide and they
should be you know Biden could halt all
of this tomorrow with one phone call and
the fact that they are not doing it um
the fact that Biden is not doing it
really shows me that he must think
American voters are really stupid
are these new plans then do you think
also a tacid acknowledgement of sorts
that the US and its allies aside from
the arms that you're talking about
essentially don't have the influence
beyond that to get Israel to live up to
basic International legal
obligations well the notion that they
don't have the influence is is ludicrous
I mean without the weapons without the
political support all of this would stop
tomorrow and if the Americans and the EU
really cared about Palestinian lives if
they really cared about Palestinian
rights and the Palestinian right of
self-determination they could take M
much more effective steps that would
really alleviate the situation tomorrow
the fact that they're not doing it shows
that they don't really care and all of
this is for domestic consumption
basically sure let me ask you a little
bit about what Logistics might look like
on the ground if all of this does go
ahead as someone who's worked for the UN
these are obviously ways to get Aid into
Gaza but how do you then deal with the
distrib on the ground once it's
inside well look all of these are you
know all of these are logistical details
that need need to be sorted out but like
I like I've said this is not
predominantly a humanitarian issue if
the Israelis were to allow a proper the
proper distribution of humanitarian Aid
like the international court of justice
ordered them to do then all of this
could be sorted out you know with a very
in within a very short period of time
but the fact that you know we're even
talking about this
just goes to show that the Israelis have
no intention whatsoever of allowing this
and they are being aided and embedded in
all of this by the Western governments
let me ask you about the narrative that
this perpetuates here the world food
program has had to suspend operations in
the north because it can't guarantee
security there I know some observers are
now using the phrase Collective
humiliation so Israel's creating the
conditions for the the level of
desperation and the lawlessness that
comes with that as people try to keep
their families
alive
well yes for sure I mean the look the
entire Israeli the entire Israeli
occupation of Palestine and I'm
including 48 within this uh is based on
Collective humiliation a daily
humiliation uh which is geared towards
uh encouraging and pushing Palestinians
out of their homes and out of their
lands so yes this is just another
extension just another level of
humiliation and another level of
genocide which is which would what we're
witnessing let me ask you one thing
about the the US plan that that really
struck me the Pentagon saying it could
take up to two months to build this
temporary Port I mean that surely gives
us some insight into how the White House
feels that ceasy negotiations are going
how long the White House thinks this war
and The Siege will
last well look yes I mean I my my
personal opinion is that probably Biden
just sort of announced this initiative
without real knowledge of how long it
would take but look really it is for
domestic consumption like I just said he
must really think that the rest of the
world and frankly American voters are
really stupid to think that you know
they would be fooled by this act of uh
Hollywood action hero you know
airlifting supplies into Berlin this is
not what this is about this is a
man-made disaster this is a genocide
inflicted by the Israelis and the
Americans could stop it immediately with
one fol Professor you yourself used to
work for the UN High Commissioner for
human rights given the political context
that you've sketched out for us here
what role do you now see for the United
Nations
here well the United Nations has has
been has had a very very difficult time
in trying to get uh the actors here and
in particular Israel to abide by its
obligations in inter under international
law and unfortunately that remains and
we see as we see with the defunding of
unra uh many of the western governments
are just all too happy to uh you know
buy into Israeli narratives about the
role that the UN is playing and should
be playing so it's a it's a very it's a
very difficult
situation s Takahashi there professor of
Human Rights and peace studies at Osaka
juger Queen University thank you for
joining us on aler and sharing your
thoughts thank you